2022-07-23

Character: 一; yi1 / jat1

This character is by far the simplest Chinese character to write. It consists of one horizontal stroke, and can be used to mean: one, a/an (article), and alone. The character 一 is also used as a radical and is the first of the radicals in the Kangxi dictionary (of which there are 214). The pronunciation in Mandarin is yi1, and in Cantonese is jat1. The goal of this blog is to introduce written Chinese to English speakers, thus, there will not be extensive discussion of the intricacies of spoken language, and how it varies between dialects.

The Chinese writing system is often referred to as an ideographic, or pictographic writing system. Meaning that Chinese characters are either symbols based off of ideas (For example, 1: 一; 2: 二; 3: 三. . .) called ‘ideographs’, or symbols based off of the appearance of an object (For example Tree: 木) called ‘pictographs’. However, neither of these terms adequately describe the contemporary Chinese writing system; as, only the simplest Chinese characters can be called ideographs and pictographs. Chinese is widely composed of characters that carry both ideographic components, and pictographic components. These individual components are called ‘radicals’. One contemporary Chinese character can take up to a total of 57 strokes to write, while being composed of more than ten components. For a language to be universally functional, it must have an enormous number of words. Creating a specific pictograph/ideograph for every concept (abstract or concrete), is simply not an option. Thus, the Chinese language adopted a system where words would not be represented solely by one pictograph/ideograph, but by a combination of components derived from simple pictographs/ideographs.

Radicals are used to organize Chinese characters in dictionaries. A radical can be thought of as a category. Each Chinese character falls under one radical. This makes it easier for people to search for a character if they do not know exactly how it is written. This is because they need only to remember how to write one part of the character, and the silhouette of the character. This way, one can quickly find a single character amongst 2000+ characters without knowing the exact stroke-order, and pronunciation.

Examples of 一 being used as a radical are as follows:

一 – One, since 《一》is its own radical.

三 – Three, the bottom stroke is used as the radical.

七 – Seven, the horizontal crossing stroke is used as the radical.
